Hi there.
This is De La Rue.
And welcome back.
Let's now go ahead and extend our project and let's implement the next feature, which is the bookmarking
part as well as implementing a page which displays all the books that are bookmarked by the user.
So first thing is we are here in the browser JSP, which we created earlier in the last lecture.
So we had this anchor tag.
OC which was displaying save.
So all we need to do is this was empty.
Let me copy a piece of code here.
This is the code.
Now here we have this GSP expression tag.
It's fine.
We can have it here and we are saying request dot get context part.
So this request object.
So we are in the GSP file.
It is similar to the request object that we see here in the controller in controllers.
We have for the do get method.
For instance, we have request and response.
So it is similar to the request that we see here.
So the GSP files also have access to that request object and we are invoking a method called get context.
But context is nothing but the web application that we have developed.
In our case it is 3D or web.
So it will add this piece here to your web, to the URL and this will be automatically added.
The domain name will be automatically added by the container.
So by invoking get context part, we are adding this piece and we are saying slash bookmark bookmark
is the URL pattern, which is.
Which is for the servlet that we created the bookmark controller and we are also saying slash sale.
So what it means is the same controller, bookmark controller can be accessed using different URL patterns.
So earlier we had slash bookmark.
So now we are also introducing another URL pattern slash, slash, bookmark, slash, save.
And next, I'll show you how we can add this the second path into the controller.
I'll show that.
And we are saying here we are adding this parameter called bid because each of this is a book and this
has a book ID, this has a separate book ID, so we need to pass when the user clicks on save here,
we need to pass the book ID corresponding to this book and then we need to pass the book ID corresponding
to this book when the user clicks on this book.
So that's the thing.
So here we have this parameter, it's called as a parameter and we are calling it as B ID equal to we
need to copy the actual ID of this book.
So we are using an l expression here.
So we are saying book ID since we are iterating through all of the books.
The book in the current iteration has the ID field and we are just getting that ID.
That's it.
So this is the URL or whatever you are seeing in the double codes and this will generate a get request
to the server to the container and there is no change here.
Now the second thing is, so this will take the control to the bookmark controller and the user.
This particular book will be saved for the user and after that the request will be forwarded to a new
page that we are going to create, which displays all the books that the user has saved.
Now we also want to add a link in this page in browser.
JSP And we want to add a link, a new menu item.
So let's go here, let's put a new navigation bar.
So we are going to add a navigation bar at the top and we want to add a new link called My Box.
So we are in the my we are in the browse page and in the browse page we are going to right here in body
after this anchor here we have at the top anchor.
So this file will also be provided.
We are going to copy this.
A new.
So we are going to add a menu and navigation bar here and this page browse JSP will have that link called
My Box and clicking on my box will also show you that same page which displays all the books that the
user has saved by clicking on here.
We'll also take you to the same page.
But here this would also additionally involve saving the book for that user.
So this includes a bookmarking functionality, but this one just simply the my books that comes up here
will simply display all the books that the user has already saved.
And it is very identical to this page, except that we will not have this these links in that page.
So that is what is being added here.
So that is the navigation bar.
And later when we implement login functionality we will add another menu item.
So even here we are saying request get context part.
So that is all always needed and we are saying slash bookmark and we are saying slash my books.
So this is a third URL pattern.
So one was slash bookmark, the other was slash bookmark, slash save.
And this one is slash bookmark, slash my books.
So let's go ahead and make our changes in the bookmark controller.
So this is what we have.
This is what we have.
If there is a single if there is a single URL, but now we have three different URLs.
So it's called a URL patterns and it's like an array.
So one of them is bookmark.
The second one is.
And the third one is.
All of them.
Here, start with a bookmark.
My books.
So these are the three URLs here.
And we need to put a closing brace.
That's it.
So now we need to update our do get method.
So this is the logic.
If we are just accessing slash bookmark.
So this is the logic that gets executed.
So we need three.
We need an f slope here.
Let me show you.
So first thing is, when somebody clicks on the save, we need to do something here.
Then we need a.
Someone clicks on my books just on the my books.
My books link.
Then we need some certain functionality here.
And finally, if somebody clicks on Browse, we need this, which we have already written.
Right.
So let's just.
Copy these two lines.
Here.
First.
Copy it here.
Now, how do we know if the control is coming from one of these?
So for that.
What we will do is there is a method called get servlet path request.
Once again, we are making use of the request object and we will say get servlet path right here and
that would return the actual servlet path of the current request.
So if the request is coming from here for this, if this was the URL pattern, it would return this
one, it would return this.
And if the request is for my box, it would return this thing.
So first, let's write it for save.
Contains save.
Then do whatever you have to do here.
Save that.
And there should be a request.
DISPATCHER for this because.
DISPATCHER For this and request dispatcher for that.
So let's do something here.
It's called a dispatcher.
Let's initialize it to NULL.
Let's also print this one just to show you.
So this will show up in the console of the Tomcat container.
Let's call it.
Sublet part.
That's for that.
And.
Take this.
We need to protect this.
So this should take us to my.
Bookstore, JSP.
And this is the dispatcher.
And same thing we are going to use for my books.
Also, this is for my books.
Same destination for both of these.
And.
But in this case, it will be slash because this is the third one which we have already implemented.
Notice that for all the gasps, it starts with a slash.
So just keep that in mind.
An animal duck.
Finally, we will forward it here.
So a dispatcher will be initialized with one of the destinations based on the request.
And that's it.
And here, request dot get sublet part.
In the second case, it will be my box.
If it contains save, save the bookmark, if it contains my box, just followed it here.
However, in my books, we need this.
Let me copy that.
It's the same code.
But in this case, we will pass it to.
Earlier we passed false.
But here we pass through.
Which means that we want to.
Get only those books that are saved by the user.
And for that, let me.
Now, if you recall, I had this.
Else block your.
I commented it out, so let me uncomment it.
So this is the query.
So this is an bookmarks to get books is bookmarked is now true.
So if it is true here it goes into this else block is bookmarked is true and it goes into this else.
BLOCK It's exactly identical.
QUERY It's just that this not in here is replaced with N.
So we want to get all the books that are bookmarked by the user.
So this query here, nested query, is going to give us all the bookmarks that are bookmarked by this
particular user with the ID file.
That's the same case here too.
But in this case we are saying the query will only look for those bookmarks.
So whatever bookmarks that you get here, we are trying to get the details of those books using the
outer query over here, the outer query, you know, it has certain IDs books.
And from that, we need to remove all of the books that are saved.
It's just the opposite.
So I think you got that.
So we uncomment that and rest of the code is just the same and we don't need parentheses here.
So that's it.
So this and this are done.
We just need to fill up this part here.
Now, if we look at bookmark manager, so we have this save here and we have the parameter bid which
is being passed from the JSP.
So we need to get the value of the bid of the book ID.
So book ID if you go back into browser.
JSP So if you scroll down here we are passing this value.
The user clicks on a particular save link and this value will be passed.
So we need to get this.
For that we use another method in request object called get parameter.
And we need to pass the name of the parameter and the name of the parameter is B ID, right?
If you go back here it is B ID.
So this is the name and this is the value on the other side of the assignment.
So if you do that, if you say get parameter of that, it will return the value.
And we can assign it to.
A string here.
It returns a string.
And so that's the thing.
Next thing is we need to save this bookmark, and the bookmark should be associated with a user.
Now, if you recall, we have implemented that method already in an earlier version.
So this is the book here we are saving the user bookmark, the input is user and bookmark so that here
we are creating a new instance called user bookmark and it has this association, it associates the
you, it has both user as well as bookmark and it is forwarding this new instance called user bookmark.
So it maintains the relationship between user and bookmark.
That's what this particular class does and we have already implemented that.
And we were invoking this method called save user bookmark, which is part of the bookmark right from
the bookmark manager.
We are invoking the bookmark and this method, this is the method and all of this has been done in the
previous version itself and we are invoking the get bookmark on the user bookmark.
So we have the user bookmark here, get bookmark would return an instance of some bookmark and if it
is an instance of book in the earlier versions, we were also having movie and web link, but right
now we are just focusing on book, so we will be passing an instance of book.
So in that case we are invoking this method called Save User Book, and in Save User book we are inserting
into this table called User Underscore Book, which has these two fields, the user ID, book ID, and
we are inserting the corresponding values user, bookmark, dot, get user.
It will get us the get the user object and we are invoking the get ID and we are doing the same thing
for get bookmark too.
We are saying user bookmark, get bookmark and get ID and that will give the idea of the book.
That functionality is there and we need to send it.
But that method bookmark manager is accepting a user object and bookmark object.
Now user object is the ID.
We have the ID and we can create a user object and just pass that ID to that.
Similarly for book also we can create a book object and an empty book object and pass that ID, but
instead of doing that, let's actually get the data from the database itself.
So let's create a method called get user and get book and get those values from the database because
that's how you should do it professionally.
That's how you should do it.
Instead of creating two new objects, user and book, and just inserting and just populating them with
the IDs, it's better to get all of the data from the database.
So that's the right proper way to do it, and let's do it in the proper way.
So let's say user manager this time, let's use in order to get the user information, let's use the
user manager because user manager corresponds to just user related methods.
So get the instance, get instance would give us the single time and let's write a new method called
get user and pass five so your hard coding the value and let me just create this method and user manager
there you go and let's make it long.
Let's call it user ID.
And this should return.
Instance user is an entity, right?
If you recall, here it is under entities.
You have all these entities and user is one of them.
Say a written doll.
In this case, doll would be user.
Here, if you go here, user, user manager uses user dog bookmark.
Manager uses bookmark.
So that's the architecture.
And.
Get user off.
User I.D..
Or to create this method.
That's it.
And this code is there and majority of this code is already there here in datastore.
So there is this book method called load users.
OC.
Here at the top.
All we need to do is just put where ID is equal to the ID and.
Here, Lord, as we are loading all of the users.
So we are adding it into a list here.
But we don't need that.
We just need a single user.
So this is the code that needs to be copied there.
So I have it here.
I copied it into a separate.
Fine.
Let me just copy it.
And I will also make this quote available in the resources section.
Let's go back into user manager.
Let's just replace this whole thing with what I have.
So let's.
And this is the one that we need to use this connection.
So.
So we imported some of the school related stuff.
So that said, once again, we are initializing the driver here, loading the driver, and we have the
private resources syntax which has the connection and the statement.
So that will automatically close them.
And the query, as I mentioned earlier, select start from user where ID is equal to user ID, which
is being passed here.
And then we are simply getting the details of that particular user.
Only one user will be retrieved and we are calling the create user method.
So this is all all code.
Nothing new.
Only difference was in data store.
We were fetching multiple rows, but in this case we are fetching only a single row.
And we are returning that.
And here, let's assign it.
That's it.
And now one thing I want to mention here in user as.
Oh, this has to go into.
Sorry, this has to go into Dow.
I made a mistake.
This has to go here.
I.
It was a wrong overwriting.
So this goes back into user manager.
Sorry.
Written.
So user.
So that's it.
And this code you see, every time we are invoking a method, we are loading this and we have all also
these statements so all of we can optimize it furthermore and we can abstract out all of this and all
of this code can go into either some super type or it can go into a separate servlet.
So this has to be invoked only once, for once we start the Tomcat server.
Once we do that, we don't need this statement anymore.
So we can do further optimizations can be done.
But this is since we are implementing it for the very first time, a basic functionality, it is fine
to have it here in every method.
So just want to tell you that there can be more optimizations that can be performed on this code.
That's it.
Next, let's get the bookmark manager the book.
So let's invoke bookmark manager.
Get instance.
Get book now.
Get book.
We will pass the bid here.
Okay.
Let's create this method.
And.
We say.
It's just almost the same name.
Get book.
The ID now create this method and bookmark dol and I already have the code get book.
Replace this with this.
This needs to be a book written type.
And in bookmark also it has to written a book, a bookmark.
It's returning a bookmark.
Let's use the super type instead of book.
We can use super type.
This used to be long.
That's it.
And bookmark now once again, the same methods we have.
Only difference between datastore and here is we were loading books, loading users, multiple users
and loading multiple books, loading multiple web links.
But over there, we just need in the new code, we just need a single book and a single user.
So have used the same code instead of storing it in a list.
I was just returning the only book that is being constructed, so that was the only change.
So it was a very simple extension OC.
And this needs to be changed to long.
Don't pass along.
Because bid is in the form of string here.
We need to convert it into long.
Okay.
That's it.
So that's it.
We are just getting a book.
We are using the same query as in the DataStore class, but instead of storing it in ArrayList we are
creating a single book and we are just returning that book very similar.
Instead of multiple books, a single book is being returned and it's called Get Book.
And let me assign it to.
Yes.
Actually, I guess I'd bookmark inserting a bookmark.
And finally we need to invoke.
We need this.
Save user bookmark as the method that we have here.
Here it is.
Just pass user and bookmark.
Okay.
That's it.
Okay, so the bookmark, the item is bookmarked and we need to.
Copy this code.
So we need to get all the.
Bookmarks that the user has bookmarked.
And since we are going to forward it, forward the control to my books, right to my bookstore, JSP,
which is here, we define it here.
So in my bookstore.
JSP we are going to display all of the books that the user has bookmarked.
So we are first saving the bookmark and then we need to get all the books from.
The database and we need to get all the books that are saved by this user and we are passing it through
here that will fetch us all the books saved by the user and we are storing it and the books attribute
here.
So we are invoking set attribute.
So as you can see, we are accessing different methods of request like the request get request, dispatcher,
request dot get parameter to get the values that are passed from the browser and request dot get servlet
path request, set attribute.
And even in the JSP we had the get context.
Something called get context.
Here it is.
Get context part.
So we are using different methods from the request object here.
So that's the HTTP servlet request and that's it.
And only thing that we need is the GSP file.
It's already pre created.
But here we need to just say.
And you.
Just be fine.
Call my books.
And the default template is good.
And I have the code here, my books.
Here it is.
It's exactly identical to the Browse.
Only thing is we are not having the save link anymore.
So we are.
Once again, here is the fur loop iterating through the box and displaying the information about the
box.
And one thing is in this particular page we are in my box.
So we also have the navigation bar and over here we are displaying browse here.
The link that is displayed is browse and browse dot JSP.
We have my box as the link, so it's just each of them pointing to each other.
And here I added this particular text called Saved Items, Saved Items because we are showing all the
items saved by this user.
So I added some text for that and then to break tags.
And here I have a new GST tag called Choose and it is similar to the switch statement or if elseif you
also have the if elseif blocks in Java, it's very identical to that or the switch statement.
So all we are saying is we are saying choose and this choose ends here.
It's a GST tag and we are having this thing called Venn C one and it is like an F condition like or
like a case block.
Think of it as a case block and we are saying test equal to so box is what is being passed and we are
using this l expression, expression, language and we are using this inbuilt function called empty.
And we are saying if it is not empty, then go ahead and execute this code which displays the box.
But if it is empty, then see when will be closed here after the table and we'll have this otherwise.
So this is like the default block and switch statement or in case of if else statement it would be the
else block and we are displaying this text here or you haven't saved any items yet because there are
no items, so that's it.
And you can have multiple one tags also because even in switch statements, you can have multiple case
labels.
So you can also have multiple one blocks and only one of them will get executed or the default one.
So that's how that is.
So let's time to create our VAR file.
Right click on your web say export var file destination is web apps inside web apps in Tomcat three
little web.
So I'm just saying save.
I deleted the earlier ones versions.
So click finish my tomcat is already running so let me see here.
So.
It created the application.
Let's go ahead and click on this one more time.
Okay.
So this is the new UI and you can see the my box link here.
So and we have five books here.
Let's go ahead and save the Java box.
It got saved.
And in the my box, here it is.
We are showing the saved items.
And if you click on Browse here, we go back to this page and let's say one more item and we will go
back.
It will take us to the browser, to the My Box page, and the new item is already saved.
So what is it?
Let me just show you the.
Okay.
So let me go into browse here and just want to show you that message that we are displaying when there
are no items.
So if you go back and if you add, then it will not show that message anymore.
So that's it.
I hope you like the new extension.
And next, we will go ahead and add the login functionality.
Thank you.
Happy coding and see you in the next lecture.